Guidelines for scientific documentation (#77)
CABLE-LSM/CABLE: documentation/docs/developer_guide/doc_guide/science_doc.md

# Guidelines for the scientific documentation

The scientific documentation must be written inline in the source code. Each of the following components:

- subroutine
- function
- interface
- derived type declaration
- non-dummy variable or array declaration

must be accompanied by a comment describing the related science.

The inline documentation is processed by [FORD][FORD] which supports formatting with [Markdown][markdown].

## Minimum requirements

At a minimum a subroutine, function, or interface must contain the following standard header template just underneath the first defining line:

    !*## Purpose
    !
    ! Just underneath the first line defining a procedure, start with a 
    ! description of the procedure's purpose in English. 
    !
    !## Method
    !
    ! Include what quantity(ies) the procedure is calculating and a short 
    ! description of the relationship between the outputs and the inputs.

>     ! It is fine to refer to a published paper as explanation of the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ! It is fine to refer to a published paper as the explanation of the 
```

    ! relationship (e.g. "following Wang and Leuning 1998"). 
    !
    ! Mention all scientific methods used in the procedure.
    !
    ! Avoid using abbreviations (e.g. write "maximum" not "max.").
    ! 
    ! Remember to keep all lines within 80 columns width, except hyperlinks
    !
    !## References
    !
    ! Add references to the published papers containing the description of 
    ! the science and equations used in the procedure. 
    !
    ! The references should show the name of the authors and the publication 

>     ! year in the rendered text (e.g. "Wang and Leuning 1998") and be a hyperlink

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ! year in the rendered text (e.g. "Wang and Leuning, 1998") and be a hyperlink
```

>     ! to the paper using the DOI link as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ! to the paper using the DOI link as follows:
```

    !
    ! [Wang and Leuning 1998](https://doi.org/10.1016/S0168-1923(98)00061-6)
    !

>     ! Do not use the citation text! It is too long and unnecessary with a hyperlink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ! Do not use the citation text! It is too long and unnecessary since we have DOI hyperlinks.
```
